Today, I thought we’d discuss
the need to keep perceiving Jehovah’s will,
particularly when it comes
to making decisions.
And what motivated me
to choose to discuss that
is this first sentence
in the comments for today.
“If we are to please Jehovah,
“we must hold firmly
to his laws and principles,
never adopting an unholy
compromising attitude toward them.”
So it’s very obvious
when it comes to commands.
And Jehovah has direct
commands in Scripture:
he forbids idolatry,
he forbids fornication,
he forbids adultery and theft.
However, there are many situations
where there is no
direct command in Scripture.
So some might feel that
in the absence of a direct law,
they’re free to do as they please.
Well, we’re aware of the fact
that the Devil would be delighted
if he succeeds in getting us
to break a law of Jehovah God.
However, “the wise in heart”
understand this need to firmly hold to
and apply Bible principles in their life.
It’s our experience that those
that don’t hold firmly to Bible principles
ultimately end up breaking a law of God.
So it’s very crucial.
That’s why this scripture
in Ephesians chapter 5
—or these verses here—
are really food for thought.
Jehovah gives us all we need
so that we’re not succumbing
to the temptation
to violate Bible principles
when we’re making decisions.
And here in the fifth chapter,
familiar words,
verse 15 all the way through 17:
“So keep strict watch that how you walk
“is not as unwise but as wise persons,
“making the best use of your time,
because the days are wicked.
“On this account stop being unreasonable,
but keep perceiving
what the will of Jehovah is.”
Why, this is so helpful
to God’s people to just
“keep perceiving what
the will of Jehovah is.”
So that’s going to call on us
to apply Bible principles in our lives.
This idea of perceiving
—some translations,
they have “discernment”
or “try to understand it.”
Really, “perceive” is a good translation.
It means to “attain awareness
or understanding.”
So we need to attain awareness
or understanding of Jehovah’s will.
Take, for example,
decisions that we make.
We’ll do a couple of examples here.
How about music choices?
Now, obviously, all of the sacred music
—our Kingdom music—
is a good choice.
But we’re not going to be overrighteous
and say we can’t listen to other music.
No, Jehovah’s not that way.
He’s not unreasonable.
However, when we
make a choice in music
that we’re going to listen to,
can you say,
“Well, I like this kind of music,”
and everything is fine?
Not if we’re
going to consider Ephesians 5:17
when it comes to making decisions
where there is no direct command
against this particular
kind of song or music.
We have to take into account
Jehovah’s thinking and his feelings.
Feelings?
Well, of course,
Jehovah has feelings—they matter.
And one that really loves him,
it’s going to matter how Jehovah
is affected by a decision we make.
And “the wise in heart” always apply
Bible principles in their lives.
They’re not going to give
their ear and heart
to music without considering
Jehovah’s feelings.
Think about a couple of questions
we might raise
in your choice of music
outside of the Kingdom music:
Can you think about Jehovah
as you listen to this song,
and can you do so
without any pain of conscience?
Are the lyrics acceptable
for one claiming
to love Jehovah and his principles?
See, good questions.
Something to think about.
You need to seek
Jehovah’s will, perceive it,
and if it’s OK
and your conscience is fine,
well, go ahead and listen to it.
But if you can’t answer
those questions there affirmatively,
well, then, it would be wise
not to violate the Bible principle.
Another example, consider
our appearance in the ministry.
And it’s noted
that styles of clothing differ
from place to place all over the world.
And we see that in our JW Broadcast
—the different type of dress
the brothers have in some parts of the earth—
and that’s acceptable.
But see, we have to think again
about Bible principles
guiding our decisions.
For example, this one here
in 2 Corinthians chapter 6,
and when we think
about our appearance
as we engage in the ministry,
the holy ministry,
verse 3 of 2 Corinthians 6:
“In no way are we giving
any cause for stumbling,
so that no fault may be found
with our ministry.”
That’s very clear.
How does Jehovah feel?
Well, it’s right here.
He’d be offended
if we had an appearance
in the ministry
that stumbled folks, see.
This is our ministry
in behalf of Jehovah God.
We don’t want to ever
give a cause for stumbling.
So if our appearance detracts
from our representing
ourselves as ministers of God,
well, then, that would stumble
anyone that we’re preaching to,
and we would avoid that.
Very clear, so you
don’t have to get a long list of rules.
Is there a chance somebody
is going to be stumbled
by my appearance?
Now, I thought that we’d further help
with this matter of perceiving
Jehovah’s will when making decisions,
and there’s no specific command.
And there was a beautiful
article back in 2003,
“Do You Always Need a Bible Command?”
Good question.
And under the heading
“Sharpening Our Perceptive Powers,”
a question was raised,
“How can we develop
our perceptive powers
“so as to know how to please Jehovah
even when he has not given
specific direction in a matter?”
And then the good advice
was provided, of course,
reminding us to “read his Word daily,
study it regularly,”
and we can’t overemphasize
the need to “meditate on what we read.”
And then the observation
was made here:
“We will experience growth
in our powers of perception” if we do so.
But it doesn’t take place rapidly.
Like the physical growth of a child,
spiritual growth is gradual.”
It “is not immediately discerned.”
And the good counsel here:
“There is a need for patience,
. . . we should not become frustrated
if we do not notice
immediate improvement.”
And then it’s balanced off with:
“On the other hand,
the mere passing of much time
will not of itself sharpen our
perceptive powers”
just because time went by.
“Such time must be filled with regular
consideration of [Jehovah] God’s Word.”
See, so we learn to “live that Word
to the best of our ability.”
That’s a profound thought.
And I thought
this was even more profound
and it really reaches
into our figurative hearts.
Just a marvelous thought
in the following paragraph.
“It might be said
“that while God’s laws
test our obedience,
“his principles test the depth
of our spirituality
and of our desire to please him.”
Now that’s worth repeating.
“It might be said that while
God’s laws test our obedience,
“his principles test the depth
of our spirituality
and of our desire
to please him”—beautiful.
So spiritual persons
are governed by Bible principles,
that way they’re
not going to be breaking a Bible law.
So let’s be determined
to please Jehovah,
to do our best always,
to perceive his will
—how does he feel about this—
and be guided by Bible principles
when we make decisions.